All right, so continuing on from
our last video, talking more about
nested classes, I want to drive in
one very important point, and that's
that you can't reference instance
members of the enclosing class in any
members of the static nested class.
Now, this is for the same reason you
cannot use instance members in static
initializers and static methods.
A static nested class's reason
for existence generally is to
be used as a static context.
We know that it's in a static context.
There's no instance from which
to make use of instance members.
So, what we need to do is go
back to our enclosing class.
We want to look at our NestedStaticClass
and what we want to do is make a
change to our getInstanceName method.
This one here on line 46.
And what I want to do
is add a line of output.
So on line 47, I'm doing a
System.out.println [outername].
Now, this is a compiler error.
We're just looking at the code above.
We have got outername defined
on line 13 as you can see there.
So, basically, outername
is an instance member
of the enclosing class.
So, it's a compiler error because
although the method getInstance
Name is not static, it is declared
on a static nested class and we
can see that defined on line 33.
It's important to remember that a
static nested class exists only as a
class member and that any code in the
nested class will not have access to
any particular instances variables.
But if I change that code now,
what I'm going to do is just
replace it, paste in some code.
You can see again;
this is not permitted.
We're trying to access doSomething
on instance, which of course,
is a public method there on
line 26 in our enclosing class.
And that's also not allowed
as you can see there.
Non-static method
doSomethingOnInstance cannot be
referred from a static context.
So, you can see where this might be
difficult to spot on a code sample
in an exam question, that seems to be
about an entirely different subject.
So, let's just undo that.
We'll go back to how it was
before I made any changes.
Let's now also test the enclosing
classes methods and its access
to the nested classes methods.
So, I'm going to go up to do
something on instance here on line 26.
You see at the moment, the comment
on line 28 tells us that line 29
is invoking the nested classes
method via an instance reference.
Let's try and change that
so that instead, it's trying
to use a class reference.
So, if we change that, paste it
in, I'm trying to invoke the nested
class method via class reference.
We've got a compiler error
there - non-static method
getInstanceName cannot be
referenced from a static context.
Just because nested static class
is nested in the enclosing class,
the enclosing class has no special
privileges to access instance
members from a static context.
It has to use an instance of the
nested static class to do it.
So, I'll just undo that and go
back to the code that was working.
Let me just make sure we've
still got our code that works.
And so, it's still working.
All right, so in the examples in
this video and the previous one,
I've demonstrated that the static modifier
can be used on a nested class, and
also previously, I’ve demonstrated
that it can't be though, it's not
allowed to be used on an outer class.
I've also demonstrated that the
static modifier allows access to
the nested class using the class
name or names either with a simple
reference if the import statement
specifies the full reference
or the hierarchical reference.
In addition, I've demonstrated that
static members in the static nested
class can be accessed directly from
static or non-static methods, and
access to them follows the same rules
of visibility as any other members.
I've also demonstrated that static
nested classes can be instantiated
and non-static attributes and methods
can be accessed or invoked through an
instance of the static nested class.
I've also demonstrated that
instance members on an enclosing
class cannot be referenced by
any members, static or non-static
of the static nested class.
And finally, we saw that instance
members of static nested classes
can only be referenced by the
enclosing class using an instance
reference of the nested class.
Right, so let's end this video here.
And in the next one, I want
to take a look at non-static
inner member classes.
See you in the next video.